Now we're going to talk about one of the more
perplexing elements of rotations in 3D.
I've got three coordinate frames here and
they're all initially parallel to each other.
The x-axes, the y-axes and the z-axes are
all aligned.
I'm going to pick up the first one, the red
one, and I'm going to rotate it by +90 degrees
around its x-axis.
Positive is in this direction so after rotating
it by 90 degrees in x-axis, it looks like
this.
And now I'm going to rotate it by +90 degrees
around the y-axis.
So this frame is going to end up looking like
this.
This is its final orientation.
I'm just going to put it down there.
I'm going to pick up the blue frame and I'm
going to do the rotation within the opposite
order.
First of all, I'm going to rotate it by +90
degrees around the y-axis.
That's the positive direction.
So it's initially going to look like this.
And now I'm going to rotate it by +90 degrees
around the x-axis.
The x-axis is now pointing downwards, that's
the positive rotation direction.
So this is what the final orientation will
look like.
And we can see that these two frames have gotten
very, very different orientations.
So when it comes to doing rotations in three
dimensions, the order in which you do them
is critically important.
Rotations are not to commutative.
Let's look at the non-commutative nature of
rotation matrix multiplication.
I'm going to have a rotation of 90 degrees
around the x-axis.
And then I'm going to rotate by 90 degrees
around the y-axis.
And the resulting rotation matrix looks like
this.
If I do this in the opposite order, I'll rotate
around the y-axis first, and then I'll rotate
around the x-axis, by 90 degrees in each case.
I end up with a resulting rotation matrix
which looks like this.
And we can see that these two matrices are
quite different.
When you're multiplying rotation matrices,
the order is critically important.